---
id: convert-pdf
url: conversion/nodejs-java/convert/pdf
title: Convert PDF files
linkTitle: PDFs
weight: 10
description: "This article demonstrates how to convert PDF to Word, Excel, PowerPoint and image formats with GroupDocs.Conversion for Node.js via Java."
keywords: Convert from PDF, Convert to PDF, Convert to PDF/A
productName: GroupDocs.Conversion for Node.js via Java
toc: True
---

Portable Document Format (PDF) was developed to introduce a standard for document representation and other reference material in a format that is independent of application software, hardware as well as from operating systems. Content of PDF files is not limited to text only, it could be hyperlinks, images, interactive buttons and forms, electronic signatures, watermarks, and many more. Therefore it's often needed to convert PDF files to some other formats to edit or modify their content. Using **GroupDocs.Conversion for Node.js via Java** library you can convert PDF files to a wide range of popular file formats, and all you need for this is just several lines of lines code in Java programming language.

GroupDocs.Conversion for Node.js via Java supports different kinds of conversions from PDF documents to other file formats and also conversion from different formats to PDF. You can examine conversion quality and accuracy online by using [GroupDocs.Conversion App](https://products.groupdocs.app/conversion/family) live demo. It works on any device and is absolutely free.  
  
## Supported PDF file Conversions

{{< include file="/conversion/nodejs-java/_includes/supported-conversions/pdf.md" type="page" >}}
  
## Convert PDF to Word

Microsoft Word is one of the most convenient ways to edit and manage document content, that's why PDF to Word conversion is so popular. Transforming a PDF file to a Word document in a manual way could be a tricky and lengthy process. Much easier is to convert PDF to Word programmatically in Java.
This way any file created as PDF could be converted to a Word document for later content manipulations and editing text, tables, images, lists, etc.

GroupDocs.Conversion for Node.js via Java supports PDF conversion to all popular formats of Microsoft Word like - DOC, DOCX, RTF, etc. The document transformation process is quite simple and straightforward from the user's point of view - all you need is two-three lines of code. The default format for PDF to Word conversion is DOCX - it's a well-known format for Microsoft Word 2007 and later versions which is a combination of XML and binary files.  
Here is a code snippet for PDF to DOCX conversion:

```js
// Load the source PDF file
const converter = new groupdocs.conversion.Converter("sample.pdf");
// Set the convert options for DOCX format
const options = new groupdocs.conversion.WordProcessingConvertOptions();
// Convert to DOCX format
converter.convert("converted.docx", convertOptions);
```

GroupDocs.Conversion for Node.js via Java also provides the [WordProcessingFileType](#) class if you need to specify another Word file format as a target for your conversion. For example, DOC format represents documents generated by Microsoft Word 97-2003 and still is quite popular and the code snippet for PDF to DOC conversion is the following:

```js
// Load the source PDF file
const converter = new groupdocs.conversion.Converter("sample.pdf");
// Set the convert options for DOC format
const options = new groupdocs.conversion.WordProcessingConvertOptions();
options.setFormat(groupdocs.conversion.WordProcessingFileType.Doc);
// Convert to DOC format
converter.convert("converted.doc", options);
```

## Convert PDF to Excel

Spreadsheet formats are designed to represent data in the form of rows and columns, and this way tables are much easier to use. Therefore, when it's required to transform data from a PDF file into Excel format GroupDocs.Conversion library comes to the rescue.  
  
You can choose from a wide range of supported spreadsheet formats:

* Microsoft Excel - XLS, XLSX, XLSM, XLSB, XLTX, XLT;
* OpenDocument - ODS, OTS;
* Apple iWork Numbers.

Required spreadsheet format can be specified with the help of the [SpreadsheetFileType](#) class, however, the default format for PDF to Spreadsheet conversion is XLSX.
Please check below how to convert PDF to Excel in JavaScript in a few lines of code.

```js
// Load the source PDF file
const converter = new groupdocs.conversion.Converter("sample.pdf");
// Set the convert options for XLSX format
const options = new groupdocs.conversion.SpreadsheetConvertOptions();
// Convert to XLSX format
converter.convert("converted.xlsx", options);
```

## Convert PDF to PowerPoint

Presentation file formats store collections of records to accommodate data such as slides, shapes, text, animations, video, audio, and embedded objects. The most popular app for creating and editing presentations is Microsoft PowerPoint with its PPT and PPTX file formats, though there are plenty of applications that work with OpenDocument formats like ODP and OTP.

GroupDocs.Conversion is a wise choice when you have to convert a PDF file into PowerPoint format, and here is what the code snippet looks like for PDF to PPTX conversion in JavaScript language:

```js
// Load the source PDF file
const converter = new groupdocs.conversion.Converter("sample.pdf");
// Set the convert options for PPTX format
const options = new groupdocs.conversion.PresentationConvertOptions();
// Convert to PPTX format
converter.convert("converted.pptx", options);
```

In case you need to convert PDF to another presentation format please use the [PresentationFileType](#) class to specify it.

## Convert PDF to Image

A popular use case is when you need to save the whole PDF document or some specific document pages as a collection of images. GroupDocs.Conversion for Node.js via Java allows converting PDF to images of many popular formats like - TIFF, JPG, PNG, GIF, BMP, and many others.
The code snippet for such conversion is a bit different from other conversions as you have to declare a [SavePageStream](#) delegate that specifies the name format for the saved images. You can choose the desired image format by using the [ImageFileType](#) class.

### Convert PDF to PNG

Please check a complete code example of PDF to PNG conversion below:

```js
// Load the source PDF file
const converter = new groupdocs.conversion.Converter("sample.pdf");
const getPageStream = (page) => fs.createWriteStream(util.format("converted-page-%s.png", page));

// Set the convert options for PNG format
const options = new groupdocs.conversion.ImageConvertOptions();
options.setFormat(groupdocs.conversion.ImageFileType.Png);
// Convert to PNG format
 converter.convert(getPageStream, options);
```

### Convert PDF to JPG

The PDF to JPG conversion is another popular use case and the code snippet for it is similar to what was described before. The only difference is the output image files extension and that the `ImageFileType.Jpg` argument should be passed to the `setFormat` method:

```js
// Load the source PDF file
const converter = new groupdocs.conversion.Converter("sample.pdf");
const getPageStream = (page) => fs.createWriteStream(util.format("converted-page-%s.png", page));
// Set the convert options for JPG format
const options = new groupdocs.conversion.ImageConvertOptions();
options.setFormat(groupdocs.conversion.ImageFileType.Jpg);
// Convert to JPG format
converter.convert(getPageStream, options);
```
